# Documentation for script: _singEasy.py_


## Summary
This program extracts all single-component transport systems from
a raw _GBlast_ tab-delimited output table (_results.tsv_).
This program generates three tab-delimited tables:  
  1) the most reliable assignments (_confident_single.tsv_)  
  2) less reliable assignments that require human validation (suspects_single.tsv).  
  3) hits with multicompoent systems (_suspects_multi.tsv_).
  This file can be safely ignored as there are other programs that focus on multicomponent systems
  (i.e., [_getMultCompSystems_](https://github.com/SaierLaboratory/TCDBtools/blob/master/manuals/getMultCompSystems.md), 
  [YutanpaNet](YutanpaNet.md) and [_showsubnet_](showsubnet.md)).  

## Contributors  
Yichi Zhang and Arturo Medrano-Soto


## Dependencies
The following Python module needs to be available to the script: 

1. **Python 3.X**  
You can download the Python 3 from the [official website](https://www.python.org/). The following
modules are required:  
  a) Biopython 1.75  
  b) hmmscanParser (included in the [BioVx distribution](https://github.com/SaierLaboratory/BioVx))  

3. **Output tab-delimited file from _gblast3.py_**  
_GBlast_ is included in the [BioVx distribution](https://github.com/SaierLaboratory/BioVx).  


## Command line options
The following options are available:

    usage: singEasy.py [-h] -d <GBlast output file> -db <sequence file> -ad <plots
                   directory> [-e EVALUE] [-scov HCOV] [-qcov QCOV]
                   [-ds DSHARE]

    optional arguments:
    -h, --help          show this help message and exit
    
    -d <GBlast output file>, --tabledata <GBlast output file>
                        MANDATORY. Path to the output table in tsv format
                        generated by the program GSAT. This table contains the
                        top matches between the query genome and systems in
                        TCDB.
                        
    -db <sequence file>, --database <sequence file>
                        MANDATORY. Path to the file in fasta format with All
                        the protein content in TCDB as generated by the
                        program extractFamily.pl. This file should reflect the
                        TCDB version that will be used to analyze both single
                        and multicomponet systems in the query genome.
                        
    -ad <plots directory>, --address <plots directory>
                        MANDATORY. Path to the root directory containing all
                        hydropathy plots generated by GBlast.
                        
    -e EVALUE, --evalue EVALUE
                        The E-value cutoff for infering GBlast hits as
                        homologs. By default E-value <= 1e-10.
                        
    -scov HCOV, --subjectcoverage HCOV
                        The alignment coverage cutoff for subject proteins.
                        Default is 70 percent.
                        
    -qcov QCOV, --querycoverage QCOV
                        The alignment coverage cutoff for query proteins.
                        Default is 70 percent.
                        
    -ds DSHARE, --domainshared DSHARE
                        The minimum number of shared Pfam domains between
                        query and subject proteins. Default is 1.
